Canadian real estate is keeping the
country afloat a massive influx of money
has found its way into real estate all
the way down the line with the
construction company's hard materials
the imports required real estate agents
banks brokers and everything else all
rely heavily on a perpetual boom in real
estate of course nothing will change
this course right well you came here for
the truth
so let me unveil that for you today we
are going to look at the Canadian real
estate market and then I'll show you a
few other points let's begin with this
article out of CBC Royal Bank has
boosted interest rates on some of its
mortgages ahead of an expected increase
in the key benchmark rate by the Bank of
Canada so potentially following suit
with Federal Reserve they will increase
interest rates they'll do so at a very
small amount and they are actually
sitting at 0.5% so they are quite
significantly lower than the Federal
Reserve which is near record lows and
they say that they're going to do this
but a bank
Royal Bank Terrace has decided to take a
step ahead and increase the mortgage
rate so we're looking at 20 basis points
so that's not a big deal but if they do
what the Federal Reserve has done that
is slow incremental increases there will
be a certain point where that begins to
crush people and it's just a matter of
fact I mean you get to that range of
four to five percent on a mortgage
people cannot afford it it's simple math
they don't have the money to do so in
previous video that I did talking about
Millennials not being able to afford a
home I think people really got the wrong
idea of that video but essentially what
we're looking at is people being able to
afford homes now because they put very
little money down they don't put 20%
down and they're proud of that they put
the minimum amount down 5% or less and
then they're getting these with
relatively low interest rates I mean if
they're putting 20% down they're
obviously going to get a better rate but
it regardless they're getting these with
low interest rates historical
and they're doing so thinking that look
interest rates will remain low prices
will continue to rise I'll be fine
and that's just not the way it works so
let's look at the details here there's a
couple points I want to make from the
next article which is out of The Globe
and Mail Canada's banking regular is
proposing that anyone who gets the
mortgage or at a bank or a bank fund the
lender prove that they can afford a rate
that is at least 200 basis points higher
than their actual rate so that's the
stress test they want to make sure
people can handle it I don't believe it
personally because we've seen all the
fraud that has been taking place it's
not exactly something that the banking
establishment should be pushing around
what they do they allow it to happen
in fact and look variable rate mortgages
are a big part of many many people who
are involved here okay they've been
buying at a variable rate this is going
to hurt people because if they leave it
in there they're going to find that
things get more expensive and it gets to
a point maybe 4% maybe 5% and you start
to have a large amount of people going
bankrupt people can't afford a higher
rate is simple matter of fact alright if
you believe the Bank of Canada's hints
and the bond market probabilities
there's a real chance you will see
higher floating rates as soon as next
week rate meeting or at its meeting
September I don't know when it's going
to happen they always push it further
and further down into the future look
the problem is very very simple to look
at you don't need to be a genius you
don't need to be part of the Bank of
Canada or the Federal Reserve or
whatever you need to know the simple
fundamentals how much people have in
their savings how much people are
willing to put down what they're
currently paying and then what will be
the result of an increase of let's say
every quarter percent
or let's say add a 1% increase look at
that and you will simply see there is a
point at which you start breaking
people's backs and it doesn't take much
because the leverage that has happened
right now is the highest ever in history
everything right now it's fine the stock
market's going up the housing prices in
most areas are going up you're
witnessing that but why because interest
rates are so low it's free money it's
free money people are buying on margin
in their stocks people are using all
different ways to extend on what they
have and they're proud of it
most people are most people are proud of
it and that's fine if you're making a
lot of money I hope you'll be able to
get out at that peak you're going to be
smart enough to get out that peak right
well let's see what happens anyway
looking at this here
Manhattan extremely expensive right now
you're looking at the apartment prices
hitting average two point one nine
million dollars it's extreme it's gone
beyond normal it's gone beyond what we
see in many other areas but there are a
few that have been escalating higher and
higher and higher and of skewing the
averages in fact that's how high it is
you see a lot of wealth that is in
Manhattan but you also see a lot of
poverty so what I believe is happening
is the wealth is being transferred from
the elite from the poor from the middle
class over to the heads of the elite and
the rich the richest of the rich yes a
lot of people are buying on big big
loans there's no doubt about that
but there are many many people who are
very very wealthy now at this time so
that's what essentially what I see it's
like the same total amount of wealth in
a way but at the same time it's a lot of
people have become poor and then that
money has found its way into the hands
of the people buying homes worth two
point one nine million dollars CBO
spending will top four wait a second
trillion dollars for the first time this
year spending will increase guess what
it's going to increase next year and
guess what it's going to increase the
year after
it has to spending has to increase
deficits have to increase the amount of
total debt has to increase that's the
way the system works it must increase at
all times but have no fear because we
owe it to ourselves that's what I keep
hearing anyway you tell me do we over to
ourselves to do over to a semi-private
quasi government institution known as a
central bank Norway's voluntary tax plan
brings in just wait a second $1,300 so
here you have a voluntary plan look if
you want to pay more taxes to your slave
owners then you can do so and that's
what happened in Norway already an
extremely heavily taxed nation and they
said look if you want to pay more you
can do so you can do so in Canada they
have something called the first-time
home buyers plan where you can dump
money into a garbage RRSP that's let's
say like a 401k you can do that you can
dump your money in and then you can pull
it all tax-free to put on your home so I
had done that years ago very small
amount anyway I didn't trust RRSPs to
begin with the reason I did so though is
knowing that I have a first time
homebuyer so I pulled the money out
tax-free and then I put it down on the
the down payment so knowing that knowing
that I was able to do so tax-free they
would come back though because it taxed
you every single year but I'm fine with
that because I didn't have to put my
money into this garbage system I was
able to keep it in there for a short
period of time pull the money out when I
needed it was a tax free but now I'm
getting taxed on it you could put your
money back in that's basically the way
they say you have to put a certain
percentage back in every year I'll take
the tax no problem whatsoever tax me now
I don't care I'm not going to put my
money back into this foolish system
don't pay the taxes if you can get away
with it but if you have to pay just
understand that as long as you are you
know doing something like what
I did where you can use a temporary
loophole to get around it that's fine
it's all fine you know you don't want to
have yourself behind bars that's the way
it's going to be a lot of people are
finding their way around the tax system
I'm not advising any of that but do what
you got to do you know that's all I'm
gonna say if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
last but not least if you found the
video informative I know you will find
my book somebody GPS and my new release
global economic collapse even more
informative so you can flip through
these books there's a link in the
description to Amazon where you can flip
through the pages for yourself to see if
you're interested take care